## Tips for building CES Surveys
CES surveys should be deployed immediately after interactions or specific touchpoints like a product purchase or an interaction with customer service. When a customer interacts with your company, simply asking them how easy it was to get their issue resolved can indicate if they’ll return as a customer. To take the survey one step further, you could ask why they rated the interaction easy or difficult so you know how to improve or close the loop on the interaction.

### What to think about when building CES surveys:

1. Optimize for Mobile– More than 50 percent of online interaction occur on mobile devices, so your survey must be optimized for mobile. Remove any additional content like logos, unnecessary text, and external links and put the positive options at the top and the negative options at the bottom.
1. Automated Triggers– Surveys should be automatically sent out after an interaction with a customer service representative or specific touchpoint. Using software like Qualtrics can create automatic triggers so you don’t need to manually send out the survey.
1. Keep it Simple– The survey should only be one or two questions and you should avoid using any leading questions.
1. Share Your Data– Results should be shared with those who can take action and leadership across multiple departments should collaborate to implement a strategy. Additionally, customer service representatives should be empowered to follow-up with the customer and resolve any issues that weren’t solved in the original interaction.

## Tips to improve CES
Customers want easy transactions and will switch to a different provider if they’re having a difficult time getting their questions answered. You can quickly improve your CES by implementing a few tools which are listed below.

1. Provide multiple channels for contact/feedback– Your business should be meeting customers in all channels of digital support, so they can choose the realm they feel the most comfortable with. Some popular options include social media support, email, chat, in-person support centers, and call centers.
1. Use self-service tools- Many customers would rather solve the issues themselves instead of speaking to a customer service representative. By providing self-service options, you make it easier for the customer to get their question answered and reduce customer effort. Forms and self-help articles are a great place to start.
1. Reduce wait times– Customers want their issues resolved quickly and they don’t want to wait on the phone to talk to a live representative. If you have high wait times, use a callback system or employ more staff during your busiest hours.

[source](https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/customer/customer-effort-score/)

## Advantages and disadvantages of Customer Effort Score (CES)

### Advantages:
It’s better at predicting brand loyalty and repurchases and is less volatile than other metrics. Although CES isn’t an exact measurement of customer satisfaction, you can draw conclusions from ease of interaction to satisfaction. 
This scoring model applies to all client-facing processes, which makes it extremely easy to take corrective actions throughout your organization.
It’s a highly reliable method to predict customer behavior and satisfaction.

### Disadvantages:
This scoring model is limited to service in particular and not your overall business.
It only gives results of whether customers find it difficult to use a service or not. You can’t determine what exactly was difficult or why a process was difficult.
The impact of factors like your cost, competitors, or product quality is not taken into consideration.

### Customer Effort Score vs. Net Promoter Score
Customer Effort Score (CES) and Net Promoter Score (NPS) are correlative surveys with their own set of advantages and disadvantages. Both Customer Effort Score and Net Promoter Score calculate customer loyalty and satisfaction. However, there are certain situations where NPS is more effective than CES, and there are situations where CES is a better indicator. They both ask different sets of questions that are more or less complementary to one another.

NPS depicts the likelihood of recommendation – “How likely are you to recommend Company X to a friend or colleague?” It is usually used to analyze brand shareability and loyalty. NPS fails to evaluate customer behavior for their latest interaction with the organization. This is where Customer Effort Score calculation can help. 

Customer Effort Score asks customers to rate the difficulty they faced with the organization’s services. The more you reduce the difficulty, the better it will be for brand loyalty. High difficulty levels indicate that you need to make changes in the way you operate and make customer satisfaction your priority.

### How to use CES and NPS together

NPS is popular because of the degree of simplicity it offers to analyze two major aspects of business: customer loyalty and anticipated business evolution. Promoters tend to stay committed to an organization and are also great sources of free marketing through recommendations to family and friends. A promoter is loyal to your organization, but it’s important to remember that they’re not guaranteed to stay loyal if your customer experience falls short.

NPS measures the overall feel of a customer towards your business and can’t be used to measure a specific customer service experience. CES, on the other hand, measures the ease of solving customer issues. It can be extremely effective in understanding obstacles in the customer experience, thus allowing you to eliminate these obstacles and indirectly increase customer loyalty.

[Source: QuestionPro](https://www.questionpro.com/blog/customer-effort-score/)

## Example
ReqView made it easy for me to handle my issue
1 - 5
Strongly disagree - Strongly agree

Overall, how easy was it to solve your problem with ReqView?
5 point scale

